what is up guys karma medic here and
today I want to make a video all about
how it is that I memorize things not
University and because I've been at
university for six years now I did the
four-year undergraduate degree in Canada
and I just completed my second year of
medical school I've had many many years
in order to figure out the best ways to
memorize different pieces of information
now this video is not going to be about
acronyms and mnemonics and other things
like that those are very good techniques
but I'm sure you've heard of them before
and I want to talk about techniques that
I've sort of thought about and developed
over these years and maybe you guys can
find them useful and introduce them into
your own memorization as well now
obviously we might not be studying the
exact same subject but what I hope to
get across in this video is the
techniques and the skills and the ideas
of memorization that I'm using and then
you guys can go on to apply them to
whatever it is you're learning if you
guys are interested in videos about
studying or you're interested in medical
school feel free to subscribe to my
channel and you'll see all the videos
from me in the future so my advice when
it comes to memorizing different facts
is you want to look at the piece of
information that you actually need to
remember and then you want to run
through a series of these techniques and
skills that I'm gonna show you in this
video and see if any of them can apply
to what you need to memorize and if they
do it's just gonna make the process a
whole lot easier so without further ado
let's look on my iPad and I'll show you
guys the techniques that I'm talking
about okay so here on my iPad
this is notability which is the app that
I use to organize all of my lecture
notes on University over here on the
left you can see progress test 3 which
was the most recent exam that I wrote on
medical school and then over here I
created a document that I called random
and this was basically a list of random
facts that I just needed to memorize it
was things that I just couldn't
understand or there was nothing to
understand I just had to remember in
these different relationships so you
guys will see this is a very very long
document and you could probably memorize
it just by rote memorization unforce but
I've have figured out a couple of
techniques and things that you can do to
make memorization like this easier so
the first thing that I want to talk
about is what I call the rule of
opposites and so many times and
especially in medicine you can memorize
a bunch of different things just by
simply remembering that something is the
opposite of the other so for example at
some point I needed to remember these
four file defects and whether they
occurred in diastole Orange systole so
you guys can see in this table that an
aortic stenosis valve defect will be
heard in systole and
or tick regurgitation valve defect will
be heard in diastole and so on and so
forth so you guys can see here that I
have one two three and four different
relationships to remember however I can
memorize this whole table by only
memorizing one relationship so you can
choose any one of these four
relationships to remember personally
well I find easiest is that a or tic
stenosis valve defect will be heard in
systole and then just by remembering
about one relationship you can figure
out the other four so for example a or
take stenosis a prison system and I know
that for the aortic valve defects
there's only one in systole on one in
diastole and by that logic that means
the aortic regurgitation must occur in
diastole and then if we reverse that and
go to the opposite mitral stenosis can't
be systolic because we already use
systolic for aortic stenosis and so that
must be in diastolic and then mitral
regurgitation must be in systolic
because mitral stenosis was in diastole
and so just by remembering this first
line over here we were easily able to
remember and recall the other three
lines now another very important thing
that helps me with memorization is that
you will see that I've taken the word a
or text enosis over here and I've
converted it just to a s and I've taken
the word systolic and I've converted it
just to s the less number of letters or
words or sentences whatever that you
memorize the easier it's going to be to
recall all this information I highly
highly recommend converting everything
you have to memorize into as little
characters diagrams symbols etc as
possible so that's the first tip let's
move on to the second one now which is
talking about color physical location
and muscle memory this table contains
four different types of cancer and there
are different risk factors and
protective factors so RF over here
stands for risk factors and protected is
for protective factors and what you will
see is that the same factors are
repeated for different types of cancers
and they can be either risk factors or
protective and so that was getting me
quite confused and it caused me to get a
bunch of these questions wrong so I
thought I would make this table and
memorize it
the first thing that I wanted to do was
generate my table structure okay so we
have cancer over here risk factors and
protective then I needed to remember the
cancers in a way that was going to be
easy for me to remember so I could
reproduce this table and what better way
to do that than to put them in
alphabetical order so we'll start with
breast cancer
then sir Michael or circle then
endometrial and then finally okay this
way because they're in alphabetical
order it's gonna be very easy for me to
remember which one is in the first row
which is in the second etc etc and after
that I used colors in order to remember
where the different risk factors were
within that table so for example you
will see over here that I have coloured
obesity and with the orange highlighter
and obesity down here again in an orange
highlighter and so now when I look at
this table I start to remember that
orange color is in the first row and in
the third row and when I look at this
table more and more and more that color
coordination becomes more apparent and
easier for me to remember because colors
are lost simpler and easier to remember
than the full words such as obesity and
you'll see that I've done this for a
bunch of different factors here you can
see smoking is in purple co c P which is
the combined oral contraceptive pill is
in yellow and that appears four times so
that's the first thing that I did used
colors in order to remember the
placements of these different factors
the second thing that I did was looked
at physical location so I didn't
actually end up memorizing any of these
factors themselves what I ended up
memorizing was their physical location
within my table so for example for Co CP
I just remembered that it was one one
skipped to the right one one and that
way I knew that Co CP was a risk factor
for the first two counselors and a
protective factor for the second two in
a similar manner I remembered that
Nullah parity and obesity were both
found in the first and third row on the
left hand side and also similarly that
smoking was found in the middle two rows
one on the left and one on the right and
I won't go through all the different
factors just take forever but the point
is that I was memorizing where the
factors were physically located in my
table as opposed to the actual words
themselves and so that physical location
is what allowed me to remember the
different places of this table let's
give that a test real quick I'm just
gonna cut this table over here and I'm
gonna attempt to redraw all those
different factors so again I remember
eyes the eyes so I don't actually
remember the remaining factors but for
almost a month after the original exam
if I managed to remember what's written
here I think I will have done pretty
well so let's see so actually not that
bad a month after the exam I managed to
remember a bunch of these factors and
where they're placed so
means that this was a good way to
memorize it and then the third thing
that I want to touch on and something
that I think is so important is muscle
memory so this table when I was
memorizing for my exam just like you saw
me do write out all the different
factors I must have done that maybe six
or seven times and I think by the third
time maybe the fourth time it just
became muscle memory when I was drawing
out the table I just remembered that Co
CP was here smoking was here in NOLA
parity was here etc etc it just became
something that I did with my hands
without even thinking about it and in
fact I remember listening to a song and
rapping along to the lyrics while also
drawing out this table so it became
something that I was doing second handed
without even thinking muscle memory is
so so so good
because it's not only something silent
something that's going on in your head
but it's something that you're acting
out through motor skills and that will
really help you remember something let's
move on to technique number three which
is alphabetical order or the natural
order of things
so when I'm looking at a piece of
information that I need to memorize this
is one of the first things that I will
look at and the first type of
Association that I will try to make so
for example at some point for my exam I
needed to remember that the hormone
glp-1 over here is produced by the ileum
and the hormone GIP
gastric inhibitory peptide is produced
by the duodenum now this piece of
information for some reason just happen
to continue tricking me over and over
and over I would keep forgetting it
hence it was in my random document over
here which just has all these random
facts that I can't seem to remember for
whatever reason so the very first thing
and the easiest connection that you
could make between these relationships
is to think okay the word GIP has an I
meant an ilium has an iron end that is
always going to be the easiest
connection you can make for this case it
turns out that that doesn't work because
the GI key is made in Jordan and vice
versa so we're gonna not be able to use
that technique for this specific fact to
memorize so the next thing that I did
was to think about the natural order of
these things in the body so as you will
remember the duodenum then the jejunum
and then the ileum is the order of the
different parts of the small intestine
in the human body and one way that I
remember that is through this acronym
over here DJ I which you probably know
is a manufacturer of drones DJI the
company and so in my notes for example
in the random document and throughout
all my lecture notes whenever I come up
with some sort of word or phrase or
acronym in order to remember something I
put it in quotations and so that way
when I'm reading my notes and I come
across these quotations I know that
that's a cue that I've made for myself
in order to help memorize these
different things anyways so I was
thinking about the natural order of
these different parts in the body and as
we mentioned before duodenum comes
before the ileum and then I looked back
at these words and I know that I comes
before L in the alphabet obviously and
so that's the way that I remembered that
G IP is gonna be released from the
duodenum because I is first in the
alphabet and D is before the I in the
Jordan and jejunum ileum and then vice
versa were the opposite for this
relationship over here another example
of something that I just for the life of
me could not seem to memorize was that
type 2 alveolar cells not type 1
producer fact and in the lungs and the
way that I ended up remembering that was
type 2 cells producer fact 10th so type
2 has two T's and so does surfactant and
that's the way that I remembered that so
how I remember so many of these
different facts is that I just look at
the words and I try to create
relationships between the two things
that I have to memorize and any way that
I can create some sort of connection is
something that's gonna be remembered by
me much much better than if I was just
trying to repeat it over and over in my
head okay so moving on to the fourth tip
or technique that I want to talk about
it's relating to real life examples or
stories in your head so when you read a
piece of information when you think
about piece of information something
that is most beneficial to me when I'm
trying to remember it is thinking back
to the hospital thinking to my GP and
trying to remember a time or a situation
why I saw a patient with X disease or
where I saw a patient with X sign and
that helps me remember this information
the best and so an example of where I
use this when studying for my exams we
had to remember a lot of different
changes that occur in a pregnant woman
so for example cardio vascular changes
respiratory changes hematological
changes and as you can see here there
was a very long list of them each one of
these lines was something that we needed
to remember whether it was increased or
decreased and so for example here you
can see that the heart rate is increased
that's a char Sieu cardiac output is
also increased total peripheral
resistance blood pressure respiratory
rates etc etc and so the way that I
remember this
just in my head picture some of the
pregnant women that I had seen when in
the hospital and on the wards and so a
lot of these pregnant women were
breathing quite deeply and so that
reminded me that the tidal volume is
increased so that's tidal volume here
they were also larger in size because
obviously they were pregnant and that's
why I remember the different
hematological changes that occur for
example increased blood volume increased
red blood cells which then leads to a
decreased hematocrit because the
dilution so this is how I remembered all
these different little things that you
guys seen here it's just by picturing
the different pregnant women that I've
seen in the hospital and trying to
relate that real life story or real-life
image to the information that I'm trying
to memorize moving on to the last three
tips here
number five is just cutting down
everything and this is something that I
touched on before but you want to
convert whatever it is that you're
memorizing into the most simple basic
form as possible you want to turn two
complete sentences into words you want
to turn words into just letters or
characters small diagrams etc you want
to be able to cut down the amount of
information that you're trying to
remember this is honestly probably the
most underrated tip this is so so so
important everything you can convert
into acronyms or little diagrams or
symbols or whatever and it just makes
everything so much easier to memorize
number six is colors I've touched on
colors before in this example that you
saw here it can really help to create a
visual connection that you might not
otherwise get with just reading text or
words and in addition to that an example
of how I use colors throughout all of my
lecture notes is that for example let's
go to aging and talk about Parkinson's
disease anytime that I've come across
treatment or medication I always always
always write to in a bright green color
everything written in this bright green
color over here so that's what you guys
see here is talking about treatment or
medications and so now in my head I
associate treatment and medications with
the color light green so when I'm in an
exam and I'm trying to recall different
medications or treatments my mind
immediately goes to a list that I have
of only bright green things that I've
written down in my lecture notes now
that might sound kind of crazy or weird
but honestly it works if I'm thinking
about treatments or medications those
are the words that I think about because
I know that they're the only ones
written in bright green in my lecture
notes ok moving back to that random
documents that we can go on to our last
tip which i think is very very important
it is creating words or sentences in
order to condense and remember
information so a very good example of
how I use this in my most recent test
was for remembering that damage to
Broca's area in the brain resulting in
expressive aphasia and damage to where
nika's area in the brain causes a
receptive aphasia and so here are the
two relationships that I needed to
remember Broca's and expressive were
nika's and receptive and the first thing
that I do is cut down all those words
cut down this sentence basically into
just two letters Broca's expressive and
Veronica's receptive and that's all the
information that I need I don't need all
of these different words if I'm trying
to recall this piece of information in
my head B II is so much simpler and
easier than Broca's expressive so the
next thing that I want to do is take a
look at these words and think about how
I can combine them into something easy
and simple to remember in order for me
to remember these two relationships here
and what I ended up coming up with was
the word beware so B where and the B e
stands for Broca's expressive and the W
R stands for nika's receptive this e
here should be small and so just like
that I've taken this relationship here
that I just for whatever reason could
not seem to remember and I've turned it
into one simple word which has been
where and I'm never gonna forget that
when I'm trying to recall this recalling
this one word here is so much simpler
than remembering Broca's expressive
aphasia where naes receptive aphasia
so the power of converting these big
sentences or big things that you need to
memorize into small word's symbols or
characters is really underrated okay
guys and I think that's everything that
I wanted to share so let me move back to
my original position I'll sign you guys
out alright guys so those are the
techniques that I wanted to tell you
guys about in this video I hopefully you
found some of them useful and that you
can incorporate them into your
and your own memorization of different
facts do leave me a comment down below
letting me know if you did find this
useful and if you enjoyed the video do
leave a like on it and subscribe to my
channel so that you guys can see more
videos from me if you're interested you
can also follow me on Instagram where I
post a bunch of photos and videos about
my day and life as a medical student and
researcher anyways guys that was just a
quick video I hope you enjoyed it and I
will see you in the next one peace